feat(daemon): guard cross-worktree Git mutations (#8687)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/users/qwen-serve.md

`GIT_DIR`/`GIT_WORK_TREE`/`GIT_COMMON_DIR`/`GIT_INDEX_FILE` assignments (also
when made through `export`/`declare`/`readonly`, which keep them in the
environment of every later command in the chain),
directory-shifting wrapper flags (`env -C`, `sudo -D`), and `cd`, `pushd`, or
`popd` builtins earlier in the same command chain. Common wrapper prefixes
(`sh -c`, `bash -c`, `eval`, `sudo`, `nohup`, `timeout`, `exec`, `command`,
`builtin`,
`env`, path-qualified `git` binaries, and `{ …; }` / `! …` shell syntax) are
unwrapped so the same policy applies to the inner Git invocation, and `$(…)`
or backtick substitution bodies are analyzed as commands of their own.

Relative targets resolve from the command's effective starting directory
(`arguments.directory` when present, otherwise the session's current effective
working directory) after canonical path resolution, including `.git` gitfile
redirects, symlinks, and per-worktree administrative directories. A relocated
target that cannot be fully resolved before execution — a dynamic target
(`$VAR`, backticks, `~`, globs), a path that does not exist yet, or an
unreadable indirection — is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands.

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The read-only allowance omits the unresolved/dynamic-target exclusion, and the sentence two lines above ('A relocated target that cannot be fully resolved before execution … is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands') implies read-only subcommands are spared that denial — so the two sentences together promise git -C $VAR rev-parse … is allowed, while the code denies it. — Failure scenario: evaluateGitInvocation checks invocation.unresolved BEFORE the RELOCATED_READ_ONLY_GIT_SUBCOMMANDS allowance (daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:974-982), and -C $X with a dynamic value sets unresolved (pushRelocation → isDynamicPathValue → unresolved = true). The guard's own suite pins the denial: test line 688-697 'denies dynamic relocations even for read-only subcommands' asserts git -C "$OTHER_WORKTREE" rev-parse → {allowed:false, reason:'…dynamic repository location'}. A model that legitimately builds a path in a variable and runs a read-only inspection (git -C $DEP_DIR rev-parse HEAD — a common pattern) gets a hard, final denial that the user-facing doc explicitly promises will not happen, and the doc's two sentences contradict each other about who wins. (Found independently by chunk 2 and chunk 3 — same defect.)

```suggestion
Amend the read-only sentence to state the allowance is contingent on the relocation target resolving (e.g. '…remain allowed when their relocation target fully resolves, unless they carry…'), mirroring the guard's own test title.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

用户文档只读放行句（'remain allowed, unless they carry a --output/--textconv/--filters flag'）漏掉 unresolved/动态目标排除：两句合读承诺 git -C $VAR rev-parse 被放行，但代码在只读放行前先拒绝 unresolved，guard 自己的测试也钉住该拒绝。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

(`rev-parse`, `ls-files`, `describe`, `cat-file`) remain allowed, unless they
carry a `--output`, `--textconv`, or `--filters` flag: those write a file or
run the target repository's configured drivers. Commands with no recognized
relocation keep their existing behavior.
Denials are final and are reported to the model as

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

> `Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…`.

Author: **[Suggestion]** The documented denial message prefix is wrong for half the built-in guard's denial classes — three of the six denial messages start with 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command ...', not '...a mutating Git command...'. — Failure scenario: A user or operator matching/classifying daemon denials by the documented string misses three denial classes the guard actually emits: UNPARSEABLE_COMMAND_DENIAL, UNDECIDABLE_PAYLOAD_DENIAL, and UNRECOGNIZED_PROGRAM_DENIAL (constants at daemon-git-worktree-guard.ts:130-143) — all surfaced as the model-visible reason for denied calls. A reader told the model sees 'mutating Git command' messages will not connect these differently-prefixed denials to the guard.

```suggestion
Reword to match the actual message family, e.g. 'reported to the model with a message beginning Daemon shell guard denied a …' with both example families.
```

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

docs/users/qwen-serve.md 声称拒绝消息前缀为 'Daemon shell guard denied a mutating Git command…'，但六个拒绝常量中有三个以 'Daemon shell guard denied a shell command …' 开头（解析失败/不可判定 payload/未识别程序），文档与实现不一致。

</details>

_— deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.7)_

`GIT_DIR`/`GIT_WORK_TREE`/`GIT_COMMON_DIR`/`GIT_INDEX_FILE` assignments (also
when made through `export`/`declare`/`readonly`, which keep them in the
environment of every later command in the chain),
directory-shifting wrapper flags (`env -C`, `sudo -D`), and `cd`, `pushd`, or
`popd` builtins earlier in the same command chain. Common wrapper prefixes
(`sh -c`, `bash -c`, `eval`, `sudo`, `nohup`, `timeout`, `exec`, `command`,
`builtin`,
`env`, path-qualified `git` binaries, and `{ …; }` / `! …` shell syntax) are
unwrapped so the same policy applies to the inner Git invocation, and `$(…)`
or backtick substitution bodies are analyzed as commands of their own.

Relative targets resolve from the command's effective starting directory
(`arguments.directory` when present, otherwise the session's current effective
working directory) after canonical path resolution, including `.git` gitfile
redirects, symlinks, and per-worktree administrative directories. A relocated
target that cannot be fully resolved before execution — a dynamic target
(`$VAR`, backticks, `~`, globs), a path that does not exist yet, or an
unreadable indirection — is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands.

> Relocated commands whose subcommand is one of a small verified read-only set

Author: **[Suggestion]** The new qwen-serve.md guard section contradicts itself over read-only subcommands with unresolvable targets: sentence 1 says an unresolvable relocated target is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands (implying read-only allowed), while the next sentence says read-only commands remain allowed unless the target is unresolvable (implying denied).

Failure scenario: A reader of the section predicts 'git -C $OUTSIDE rev-parse HEAD' (dynamic target, read-only subcommand) will be allowed — sentence 1's taxonomy says unresolvable targets are only denied for mutating subcommands — but the guard denies it with 'dynamic repository location'. The implementation follows sentence 2 (unresolved is checked before the read-only allowance).

Suggested fix: Reword sentence 1 to state that unresolvable targets are denied unconditionally (or drop 'mutating or unclassifiable' and align it with sentence 2).

_— DeepSeek/deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.8)_

<details><summary>中文说明</summary>

The new qwen-serve.md guard section contradicts itself over read-only subcommands with unresolvable targets: sentence 1 says an unresolvable relocated target is denied for mutating or unclassifiable subcommands (implying read-only allowed), while the next sentence says read-only commands remain allowed unless the target is unresolvable (implying denied).

失败场景：A reader of the section predicts 'git -C $OUTSIDE rev-parse HEAD' (dynamic target, read-only subcommand) will be allowed — sentence 1's taxonomy says unresolvable targets are only denied for mutating subcommands — but the guard denies it with 'dynamic repository location'. The implementation follows sentence 2 (unresolved is checked before the read-only allowance).

建议修复：Reword sentence 1 to state that unresolvable targets are denied unconditionally (or drop 'mutating or unclassifiable' and align it with sentence 2).

</details>

_— DeepSeek/deepseek-v4-flash via Qwen Code /review (v0.21.8)_
